---
layout: post
title: Robocop
---

Robocop is far more an anti-corporate movie than it is an anti-cop movie. When John F. Kennedy was killed, his death also represented the end of a certain philosophy of neoliberal policy. His presidency was at the center of the question of how United States policy should go about extracting value from the third world. This question of extracting value is likewise at the center of corporate politics in Robocop. There are no 'good' suits and 'bad' suits, even if the film ends with Murphy patted on the shoulder by a benevolent executive. The reason he is able to become Robocop in the first place is because the executives are uniform in their commitment to finding a way to extract profit from the crime ridden streets of old Detroit. How they go about engineering such profit is not a docile question, as the infighting between executives, more than just office drama, embodies violent material differences with regards not just to what the company will look like, but what form the violence carried out by police will take. In the end, the faction which produced Robocop is that which wins out, Murphy being both the means of their victory and the ends of their corporate philosophy. The underlying causes of the issues which Murphy faces are never something Murphy is able to address, or even interact with; his fourth directive is never gotten rid of, merely worked around as he aligns with a different sect of corporate greed. Corporate profit extraction, "business is where you find it", is taken for granted by every faction, and contesting such practices is never made possible to Murphy, his only options being those offered to him by the same corporation which creates the problems he is faced with.
