---
layout: post
title: Memories of Murder
---

For a while, I thought of Orson Welles's Touch of Evil as the only cop film truly capable of confronting the brutality of policing. Memories of Murder confronts that brutality so directly as to render Welles's pathos nearly insignificant by comparison. Unlike Charlton Heston's Vargas, the best of the detectives here cannot lose their principles, not because they have some incorruptible moral fiber which Vargas lacks, but because even the most upstanding of them are implicated in the worst of policing from the beginning. Welles makes policing horrifying by forcing us to watch a meticulously principled detective become transformed by the investigation process into the very corruption which he sought to root out. For Bong Joon-Ho, however, there is no point of grace from which to fall. Detective Seo may object to the senseless violence which characterizes the investigation process of his peers, but this is not due to some humanistic liberal belief in some higher process or rights for these victims. He idly watches the abuse of innumerable innocent suspects, only interjecting when their apparent innocence necessitates moving on with the investigation. He, like the other detectives, only cares about catching the killer, and this focus on results is the sole factor which leads him to intervene in the wanton abuse in which other investigators partake. Even so, he, like Vargas eventually becomes the executor of the same violence as his peers. He trusts wholeheartedly in his own investigative processes, and when these processes fail him, he turns with pathetic suddenness towards the same violence against innocents as those around him. The tragedy here, for Seo at least, is not one of total and irreversible corruption that the investigation brings about, but the fact that, as an investigator, that corruption had always already happened.
